.. _docs_gp_rnaseq:

.. spelling::

     html
     goseq
 
RNA Sequencing Pipeline
========================

This pipeline aligns reads with `STAR <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23104886>`_ 2-passes mode, assembles transcripts with `Cufflinks <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20436464>`_, and performs differential expression with `Cuffdiff <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23222703>`_. In parallel, gene-level expression is quantified using `htseq-count <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260700>`_, which produces raw read counts that are subsequently used for differential gene expression with both `DESeq process <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3218662/>`_ and `edgeR algorithms <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19910308>`_. Several common quality metrics (e.g., ribosomal RNA content, expression saturation estimation) are also calculated through the use of `RNA-SeQC <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22539670>`_ and in-house scripts. Gene Ontology terms are also tested for over-representation using `GOseq <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20132535>`_. Expressed short single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and indels calling is also performed by this pipeline, which optimizes GATK best practices to reach a sensitivity of 92.8%, precision of 87.7%, and F1 score of 90.1%. 

.. contents:: :local:

----

Introduction
------------

The standard MUGQIC RNA-Seq pipeline is based on the use of the `STAR aligner <https://code.google.com/p/rna-star/>`_ to align reads to the reference genome. These alignments are used during downstream analysis to determine genes and transcripts differential expression. The `Cufflinks suite <http://cufflinks.cbcb.umd.edu/>`_ is used for the transcript analysis whereas `DESeq <http://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/DESeq.html>`_ and `edgeR <http://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/edgeR.html>`_ are used for the gene analysis.  The RNAseq pipeline requires to provide a :ref:`design<docs_design_file>` file which will be used to define group comparison in the differential analyses.  The differential gene analysis is followed by a Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis. This analysis use the `goseq approach <http://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/goseq.html>`_. The goseq is based on the use of non-native GO terms (see details in the section 5 of the `corresponding vignette <http://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/vignettes/goseq/inst/doc/goseq.pdf>`_.

Finally, a summary html report is automatically generated by the pipeline at the end of the analysis. This report contains description of the sequencing experiment as well as a detailed presentation of the pipeline steps and results. Various Quality Control (QC) summary statistics are included in the report and additional QC analysis is accessible for download directly through the report. The report includes also the main references of the software tools and methods used during the analysis, together with the full list of parameters that have been passed to the pipeline main script.


See :ref:`More Information` section below for details.

----

Version
-------
::

  3.1.4

For the latest implementation and usage details refer to DNA Sequencing implementation `README file <https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/src/master/pipelines/dnaseq/README.md>`_ file.

----

Usage
-----

::

**Optional Arguments**

::

----

Example Run
-----------

TBD

----

Pipeline Schema
---------------

TBD

Pipeline Steps
--------------

TBD

----

.. include:: steps_rnaseq.inc

----

.. _More Information on RNA Sequencing:

More information
-----------------

For the latest implementation and usage details refer to

----

.. The following are replacement texts used in this file

.. |picard_sam_to_fastq| replace:: `Picard SAM to FastQ`_
