:orphan:

.. _docs_gp_relnote_2_0_0:

.. spelling::

    timestamp

GenPipes 2.0.0 Release Notes
============================

May the *genomic analysis and bioinformatics* **force** be with you!

This is the first Python release of GenPipes!

What's new? 
------------

* Complete redesign of the pipelines in Python for DNA-Seq, RNA-Seq, RNA-Seq De Novo Assembly, PacBio Assembly. ChIP-Seq pipeline will be available in the next release. 
* Pipelines now share a common list of options 
* Option and step description is available with --help 
* Config .ini files can be provided as a list with default one set for abacus and Homo sapiens genome; custom ones can be added for other clusters and/or genomes; `refer to latest configuration file details here <https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/src/master/README.md>`_. 
* 2 job schedulers are available to submit jobs: PBS for job submission on a cluster, batch for simple command line script 
* Smart job up-to-date status is computed given a step range: if a job is not up to date, all dependent subsequent jobs are created as well 
* Option to force job creation even if they are up to date 
* New input readset file format. Cf: https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/src/master/README.md 
* Log-leveled messages to track job creation, input/output files, up-to-date status 
* Bash script output with version, timestamp and number of created jobs 
* Option to specify output directory 
* and many more... 

Quick! Where can I find it? I can't wait! 
------------------------------------------

This version tarball is in: 

https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/downloads/mugqic_pipelines-2.0.0.tar.gz 

The module mugqic/mugqic_pipelines/2.0.0 is installed on abacus, guillimin and mammouth clusters. 

The source code is in Bitbucket: 

https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/mugqic_pipelines 
