:orphan:

.. _docs_gp_relnote_3_6_2:

.. spelling::

     genpipes
     insilico

GenPipes 3.6.2 Release Notes
============================

.. note::

     This is a minor release of GenPipes.

     Watch out for the next release with full support for Python3!!!!

What's new? 
-----------

* Minor updates:

  - Bug fixes such as white space cleanup, protocol mix up for rnaseq pipeline 
  - All pipelines now support Pandoc 2.16.1
  - RNA sequencing (denovo assembly) pipeline updated for merge_trimmomatic_stats outputs to fix insilico_read_normalization_all_report dependencies
  - Readset file parser improvements to handle duplicate IDs
  - All GenPipes utilities and tools are updated
  - New genome and software install scripts updated

Quick! Where can I find it? I can't wait! 
------------------------------------------
 
* This version tarball is in: https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/downloads/genpipes-3.6.2.tar.gz

* The module mugqic/genpipes/3.6.2 is installed on Abacus (MGC), Béluga, Graham and Cedar clusters.

* The source code is in bitbucket: https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes

* For more documentation, please refer to: https://genpipes.readthedocs.io/

Where is the detailed ChangeLog? 
================================= 
A ChangeLog (`CHANGELOG.md <https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/src/master/CHANGELOG.md>`_) is available in the archive as well as in the repository.

Since we use git, there are many ways to get the details in many formats. 
One of our preferred ways is to use a script written by the author of the Ray assembler: Sébastien Boisvert, 
which lists the commits by tag and author: 

https://raw.github.com/sebhtml/ray/master/scripts/dump-ChangeLog.sh 

Enjoy our pipelines on the many clusters where they are installed!
