:orphan:

.. _docs_gp_relnote_3_1_5:

.. spelling:word-list::

     methylkit
     cufflinks
     genpipes

GenPipes 3.1.5 Release Notes
============================

What's new? 
-----------

* This is mainly a bug-fix release; many glitches have been corrected
* New Sanity check mode\:

  - Checks for any missing file, parameter, setting or anything else that could break the pipeline execution
  - Creates a report of what needs to be fixed to run the pipeline

* MethylSeq pipeline\:

  - Single-end sequencing analysis are now handled

* CRAM output step added to all pipelines
* Command of each job is now sent to file (along with the job output files)
* Config files for Cedar, Mp2b, Beluga, Graham clusters have been corrected for all the pipelines


Quick! Where can I find it? I can't wait! 
------------------------------------------
 
* This version tarball is in: https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/downloads/genpipes-3.1.5.tar.gz

* If you have a Compute Canada CCDB user account, the module mugqic/genpipes/3.1.5 is installed on Abacus, Mp2b, Béluga, Graham and Cedar clusters.

* The source code is in bitbucket: https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes

Where is the detailed ChangeLog? 
================================= 
A ChangeLog (`CHANGELOG.md <https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/src/master/CHANGELOG.md>`_) is available in the archive as well as in the repository.

Since we use git, there are many ways to get the details in many formats. 
One of our preferred ways is to use a script written by the author of the Ray assembler: Sébastien Boisvert, 
which lists the commits by tag and author: 

https://raw.github.com/sebhtml/ray/master/scripts/dump-ChangeLog.sh 
