:orphan:

.. _docs_gp_relnote_3_4_0:

.. spelling::

     genpipes

GenPipes 3.4.0 Release Notes
============================

What's new? 
-----------

* Major update of the :ref:`ChIPSeq pipeline<docs_gp_chipseq>`:

  - **Metrics consolidation:** GenPipes and IHEC metrics
  - **File Format:** New Readset file format with MarkName and MarkType for changing the use of Design file.
  - **Sample Handling:** Samples are no longer merged at calling step and are organized by MarkName.
  - **Design File:** The Design file has no use anymore but we are working on adding new steps for comparing samples via this file (as in the other pipelines).

* Workflow diagrams of all the pipelines are now updated : each protocol of all the pipelines now have its own representative workflow.

Quick! Where can I find it? I can't wait! 
------------------------------------------
 
* This version tarball is in: https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/downloads/genpipes-3.4.0.tar.gz

* The module mugqic/genpipes/3.4.0 is installed on Abacus (MGC), Béluga, Graham and Cedar clusters.

* The source code is in bitbucket: https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes

* For more documentation, please refer to: https://genpipes.readthedocs.io/

Where is the detailed ChangeLog? 
================================= 
A ChangeLog (`CHANGELOG.md <https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/src/master/CHANGELOG.md>`_) is available in the archive as well as in the repository.

Since we use git, there are many ways to get the details in many formats. 
One of our preferred ways is to use a script written by the author of the Ray assembler: Sébastien Boisvert, 
which lists the commits by tag and author: 

https://raw.github.com/sebhtml/ray/master/scripts/dump-ChangeLog.sh 

Enjoy our pipelines on the many clusters where they are installed!

.. _vcftool imiss: http://vcftools.sourceforge.net/man_latest.html
