:orphan:

.. _docs_gp_relnote_5_0_0:

.. spelling::

     genpipes

GenPipes 5.0.0 Release Notes
============================

What's new? 
-----------

This is a major release of GenPipes. 

There are usage changes, some pipelines are merged into a single DNA sequencing pipeline, others have been deprecated. Refer to the details below:

* GenPipes 5.0 distribution is now based on Python packaging. Earlier versions were distributed in the form of Python modules.
  
* GenPipes 5.x onward will only supports Python v3.11.1 and above. 

* The command syntax to run GenPipes deployed in the `Digital Research Alliance of Canada <https://alliancecan.ca/en>`_, formerly Compute Canada, servers such as beluga, has **changed** as follows:

  - **Old Format** 

    ::
    
      user@beluga % <pipeline name>.py [options] -g genpipes_cmd.sh
      user@beluga % bash genpipes_cmd.sh

  - **New Format** 
  
    ::

      user@beluga % genpipes <pipeline name> [options] -g genpipes_cmd.sh
      user@beluga % bash genpipes_cmd.sh

* When using **GenPipes deployed on the Digital Research Alliance Canada servers such as beluga**, you will notice that all the documentation references to MUGQIC are removed. A new variable ‘GENPIPES_INIS’ is introduced for streamlining access to the config files used in the `genpipes` commands.

  - **Before** 

    :: 
    
      $MUGQIC_PIPELINES_HOME/pipelines/<pipeline>/<pipeline>.base.ini

  - **Now** 

    :: 
      
      $GENPIPES_INIS/<pipeline>/<pipeline>.base.ini 

  .. note::

        Please note that the old variable, 'MUGQIC' will still be accessible and is still in use for instructions on how to deploy GenPipes locally, in the cloud, or in a container.

* `DNA Sequencing Pipeline <https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/src/5.0.0/pipelines/dnaseq/>`_
   - This pipeline has been enhanced and now supports seven protocols. The DNA sequencing High Coverage and Tumor Pair pipelines are merged into DNA sequencing pipeline. 
   - Use -t option to select one of the supported protocols: `germline_snv, germline_sv, germline_high_cov, somatic_tumor_only, somatic_fastpass, somatic_ensemble, somatic_sv`
  
* The following pipelines are deprecated. Use older GenPipes release v4.6.1 to access these pipelines:
  
  - `Hi-C sequencing Pipeline <https://genpipes.readthedocs.io/en/genpipes-v4.6.1/user_guide/pipelines/gp_hicseq.html>`_
  - `EpiQC sequencing Pipeline <https://genpipes.readthedocs.io/en/genpipes-v4.6.1/user_guide/pipelines/gp_epiqc.html>`_

* The :ref:`Methylseq pipeline<docs_methylation>` has a new protocol option using the gemBS aligner instead of Bismark.
  
* The :ref:`RNA Sequencing (De Novo)<docs_gp_rnaseq_denovo>` pipeline has been updated in this release
  
* Genome build GRCh38 (human) is now the default reference genome for all pipelines, but other versions or species can be selected via config files, as before.
  
* Markdown style reports have been deprecated for all pipelines in v5.0 and replaced entirely with MultiQC reports.
      
Quick! Where can I find it? I can't wait! 
------------------------------------------
 
* The latest release for GenPipes version 5.0.0 tarball is in: https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/downloads/genpipes-5.0.0.tar.gz

* The package mugqic/genpipes/5.0.0 is installed on Abacus (MGC), Béluga, Graham, Cedar and Narval Compute Canada clusters.

* The source code is in bitbucket: https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes

* For latest GenPipes documentation, please refer to: https://genpipes.readthedocs.io/

Where is the detailed ChangeLog? 
================================= 

A ChangeLog (`CHANGELOG.md <https://bitbucket.org/mugqic/genpipes/src/master/CHANGELOG.md>`_) is available in the archive as well as in the repository.

Since we use git, there are many ways to get the details in many formats.

One of our preferred ways is to use `a script <https://raw.github.com/sebhtml/ray/master/scripts/dump-ChangeLog.sh>`_ written by the author of the Ray assembler: Sébastien Boisvert, which lists the commits by tag and author. 

Enjoy our pipelines installed on the many Compute Canada clusters!
We look forward to your feedback!
